You can catch thrown items by toggling on your throw mode with an empty hand active.
To crack a safe, use a stethoscope or explosives on it.
You can climb onto a table by dragging yourself onto one. This takes time and drops the items in your hands on the table. Clicking on a table that someone else is climbing onto will knock them down.
You can drag other players onto yourself to open the strip menu, letting you remove their equipment or force them to wear something. Note that exosuits or helmets will block your access to the clothing beneath them, and that certain items take longer to strip or put on than others.
Clicking on a windoor rather then bumping into it will keep it open, you can click it again to close it.
You can change the control scheme by pressing tab. One is WASD, the other is the arrow keys. Keep in mind that hotkeys are also changed with this.
All vending machines can be hacked to obtain some contraband items from them, and some can be fed with coins to gain access to premium items.
Glass shards can be welded to make glass, and metal rods can be welded to make metal. Ores can be welded too, but this takes a lot of fuel.
If you need to drag multiple people to safety, or a grave bring a locker or crate over and stuff them all in before hauling them off.
You can grab someone by clicking on them with the grab intent, then upgrade the grab by clicking on them once more. An aggressive grab will momentarily stun someone, allow you to place Mekhi on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
Holding alt and left clicking a tile will allow you to see its contents in the top right window pane, which is much faster than right clicking.
The resist button will allow you to resist out of handcuffs, being buckled to a chair or bed, out of locked lockers, bolas and more. Whenever you're stuck, try resisting!
You can move an item out of the way by dragging it and then clicking on an adjacent tile with an empty hand.
You can recolor certain items like jumpsuits and gloves in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.
If you obtain one, a hypospray is like a refillable instant injection syringe that can hold 30 units as opposed to the standard 15.
While both heal toxin damage, the difference between charcoal and antitoxin is that charcoal will actively remove all other reagents from one's body, while antitoxin only removes various toxins - but can overdose.
With surgery, you can implant or extract things from people's chests. This can range from putting in a bomb to pulling out an alien larva.
With surgery you must target the correct limb and be on help intent when trying to perform surgery on someone. Using disarm attempt will intentionally fail the surgery step.
With surgery, you can extract implants by holding an empty implant case in your offhand while performing the extraction step.
Clone scanning people will implant them with a health tracker that displays their vitals in the clone records. Useful to check on your possibly dead friends!
There are dozens of chemicals out in the wastes that can heal, and even more that can cause harm. Experiment!
Some chemicals can only be synthesized by heating up the contents in the chemical heater.
With a chem dispenser, you can make 100u bottles from plastic sheets. The ChemMaster can produce infinite 30u glass bottles as well.
With a cloning machine set up, you can eject someone from cloning early by disabling power in genetics. Note that they will suffer more genetic damage and may lose vital organs from this.
With the robotics console, you can lock down cyborgs instead of blowing them up. Then you can have their laws reset or if that doesn't work, safely dismantled.
Researchable stock parts from the protolathe can seriously improve the efficiency and speed of machines around the wastes. In some cases, it can even unlock new functions.
As a Scientist, getting drunk just enough will speed up research. Skol!
You can repair cyborgs with a welding tool. If they have taken burn damage from lasers, you can remove their battery, expose the wiring with a screwdriver and replace their wires with a cable coil.
You can reset a cyborg's module by cutting and mending the reset wire with a wire cutter.
You can surgically augment people with cyborg limbs. Augmented limbs can easily be repaired with cables and welders.
As the AI, you can click on people's names to look at them. This only works if there are cameras that can see them.
As the AI, you can quickly open and close doors by holding shift while clicking them, bolt them when holding ctrl, and even shock them while holding alt.
As the AI, you can take pictures with your camera and upload them to newscasters.
As a Cyborg, choose your module carefully, as only cutting and mending your reset wire will let you repick it. If possible, refrain from choosing a module until a situation that requires one occurs.
As a Cyborg, you are immune to most forms of stunning, and excel at almost everything far better than humans. However, flashes can easily stunlock you and you cannot do any precision work as you lack hands.
As a Cyborg, you are impervious to fires and heat. If you are rogue, you can release plasma fires everywhere and walk through them without a care in the world!
As a Cyborg, you are extremely vulnerable to EMPs as EMPs both stun you and damage you. The ion rifle in the armory or a traitor with an EMP kit can kill you in seconds.
As a Service Cyborg, your spray can knocks people down. However, it is blocked by gas masks.
As an Engineering Cyborg, you can attach air alarm/fire alarm/APC frames to walls by placing them on the floor and using a screwdriver on them.
As a Medical Cyborg, you can fully perform surgery and even augment people.
You can electrify grilles by placing wire "nodes" beneath them: the big seemingly unconnected bulges from a half completed wiring job.
You can repair windows by using a welding tool on them while on any intent other than harm.
As an Engineer, your departmental protolathe and circuit printer can manufacture the necessary circuit boards and components to build just about anything. Make extra medical machinery everywhere! Build a gibber for security! Set up an array of emitters pointing down the hall! The possibilities are endless!
As an Engineer, you can pry open secure storage by disabling the engine room APC's main breaker. This is obviously a bad idea if the engine is running.
An RCD can be reloaded with mineral sheets instead of just compressed matter cartridges.
Don't let the power go to your head. You may have drugs, great equipment, and a miniature army at your side, but even the greatest can fall.
Communicate and coordinate with your faction via radios printed from a construction lathe.
You can hack the MegaSeed Vendor to get access to more exotic seeds.
You can mutate the plants growing in a hydroponics trays with unstable FEV solution or, as an alternative, crude radioactives from chemistry to get special variations.
Mousetraps can be used to create bombs or booby-trap containers.
As a Ghost, you can see the inside of a container on the ground by clicking on it.
As a Ghost, you can double click on just about anything to follow it. Or just warp around!
You can swap floor tiles by holding a crowbar in one hand and a stack of tiles in the other.
When hacking doors, cutting and mending the "test light wire" will restore power to the door.
When crafting most items, you can either manually combine parts or use the crafting menu.
Suit storage units not only remove blood and dirt from clothing, but also radiation!
Remote devices will work when used through cameras. For example: Bluespace RPEDs and door remotes.
As a Raider, you can gain valuable goods, drugs, armor, and weapons by taking them from the weak.
As a Raider, you are beholden only to your lack of morals, you monster.
Make sure to read a factions rules before you break the rules inadverdently.
Before entering combat, make sure you ready all your advantages. Drugs, spare weapons, healing, friends.
Never give up, never give up, never give up, kill kill kill!
Only the strong and those who can be friends with the strong can survive.
The strong die when they get cocky and sure of themselves, blind of the spear they are running at.
The sharpest weapon you have is your mind.
Have mercy, it might save your life.
If things go wrong, don't be afraid to run and fight another day.
The wastes have plenty of loot, if you're willing to delve for it.
The most valuable loot isn't the shiniest, it's the friends you make.
Don't die.
Play stupid games, win stupid prizes.
Manage your inventory carefuly. Do you really need that eighth gun?
